Add SolarEdge Modules docs (#39361)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/_integrations/solaredge_modules.markdown

The main use case is to track your solar production per module to identify any faulty module that underperforms and might need cleaning or repairing.

The integration fetches energy production for the past 7 days every 12 hours and inserts the data into statistics.

To set up the integration, you need a username and password with access to the [SolarEdge web portal](https://monitoring.solaredge.com/). You also need the site ID, which you can get from the URL once you log in (for example, `1234` from `https://monitoring.solaredge.com/solaredge-web/p/site/1234/`).

{% include integrations/config_flow.md %}

## Examples

### Statistics graph

An example of a Statistics graph that shows hourly production per module for the past 7 days.

![Screenshot hourly production Statistics graph](/images/integrations/solaredge_modules/hourly_production.png)

```yaml
chart_type: line
period: hour
type: statistics-graph
entities:
  - solaredge_modules:1234567_100000001
  - solaredge_modules:1234567_100000002
  - solaredge_modules:1234567_100000003
  - solaredge_modules:1234567_100000004
stat_types:
  - change
days_to_show: 7
title: Hourly production per module on east side

> ```

Author: The statistic IDs are correct

Another example of a Statistics graph that shows daily production per module for the past 7 days.
It's easier here to identify any problematic modules.

![Screenshot daily production Statistics graph](/images/integrations/solaredge_modules/daily_production.png)

```yaml
chart_type: line
period: day
type: statistics-graph
entities:
  - solaredge_modules:1234567_100000001
  - solaredge_modules:1234567_100000002
  - solaredge_modules:1234567_100000003
  - solaredge_modules:1234567_100000004
stat_types:
  - change
title: Daily production per module on east side
days_to_show: 30

> ```

Author: The statistic IDs are correct

---
title: SolarEdge Modules
description: Instructions on how to integrate SolarEdge Modules within Home Assistant.
ha_category:
  - Energy
ha_release: '2025.7'
ha_iot_class: Cloud Polling
ha_config_flow: true
ha_domain: solaredge_modules
ha_dhcp: true
ha_codeowners:
  - '@tronikos'
ha_integration_type: service
---

> The SolarEdge Modules integration allows you to retrieve energy production data per inverter, string, and module from your SolarEdge solar power setup and insert it into Home Assistant statistics.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **SolarEdge Modules** {% term integration %} allows you to retrieve energy production data per inverter, string, and module from your SolarEdge solar power setup and insert it into Home Assistant statistics.

```

> You can find the created statistics in **Developer Tools** > **Statistics** and searching for `solaredge_modules`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can find the created statistics under {% my developer_statistics title="**Developer tools** > **Statistics**" %}, searching for `solaredge_modules`.

```

You can show them in the UI using the [`Statistic card`](/dashboards/statistic/) or [`Statistics graph card`](/dashboards/statistics-graph/).
You can use them in automations using the [`SQL`](/integrations/sql/) integration.

The main use case is to track your solar production per module to identify any faulty module that underperforms and might need cleaning or repairing.

> The integration fetches energy production for the past 7 days every 12 hours and inserts the data into statistics.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Prerequisites

```

To set up the integration, you need a username and password with access to the [SolarEdge web portal](https://monitoring.solaredge.com/). You also need the site ID, which you can get from the URL once you log in (for example, `1234` from `https://monitoring.solaredge.com/solaredge-web/p/site/1234/`).

{% include integrations/config_flow.md %}

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

## Data updates

The integration fetches energy production for the past 7 days every 12 hours and inserts the data into statistics.

```

Finally, create an automation that updates the sensors and notifies you. Example:

{% note %}
Update the SQL sensor entity IDs to match your setup.
{% endnote %}

```yaml
alias: "Notify: Low solar production modules"
triggers:
  - trigger: time
    at: "11:00:00"
conditions: []
actions:
  - action: homeassistant.update_entity
    metadata: {}
    data:
      entity_id:
        - sensor.solaredge_low_production_modules_east
        - sensor.solaredge_low_production_modules_west
  - if:
      - condition: template
        value_template: |-
          {{ states('sensor.solaredge_low_production_modules_east') != '' or
             states('sensor.solaredge_low_production_modules_west') != '' }}
    then:
      - action: persistent_notification.create
        metadata: {}
        data:
          message: >-
            East: {{ states('sensor.solaredge_low_production_modules_east') |
            default('N/A') }}

            West: {{ states('sensor.solaredge_low_production_modules_west') |
            default('N/A') }}
          title: Low production detected on solar modules
          notification_id: solaredge_modules_low_production_alert

> mode: single

Author: This is correct. You are out of date

---
title: SolarEdge Modules
description: Instructions on how to integrate SolarEdge Modules within Home Assistant.
ha_category:
  - Energy
ha_release: '2025.7'
ha_iot_class: Cloud Polling
ha_config_flow: true
ha_domain: solaredge_modules
ha_dhcp: true
ha_codeowners:
  - '@tronikos'
ha_integration_type: service
---

The **SolarEdge Modules** {% term integration %} allows you to retrieve energy production data per inverter, string, and module from your SolarEdge solar power setup and insert it into Home Assistant statistics.

You can find the created statistics under {% my developer_statistics title="**Developer tools** > **Statistics**" %}, searching for `solaredge_modules`.

You can show them in the UI using the [`Statistic card`](/dashboards/statistic/) or [`Statistics graph card`](/dashboards/statistics-graph/).
You can use them in automations using the [`SQL`](/integrations/sql/) integration.

The main use case is to track your solar production per module to identify any faulty module that underperforms and might need cleaning or repairing.

## Prerequisites

> To set up the integration, you need a username and password with access to the [SolarEdge web portal](https://monitoring.solaredge.com/). You also need the site ID, which you can get from the URL once you log in (for example, `1234` from `https://monitoring.solaredge.com/solaredge-web/p/site/1234/`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- To set up the integration, you need a username and password with access to the [SolarEdge web portal](https://monitoring.solaredge.com/). 
- You also need the site ID, which you can get from the URL once you log in (for example, `1234` from `https://monitoring.solaredge.com/solaredge-web/p/site/1234/`).

```

You can find the created statistics under {% my developer_statistics title="**Developer tools** > **Statistics**" %}, searching for `solaredge_modules`.

You can show them in the UI using the [`Statistic card`](/dashboards/statistic/) or [`Statistics graph card`](/dashboards/statistics-graph/).
You can use them in automations using the [`SQL`](/integrations/sql/) integration.

The main use case is to track your solar production per module to identify any faulty module that underperforms and might need cleaning or repairing.

## Prerequisites

- To set up the integration, you need a username and password with access to the [SolarEdge web portal](https://monitoring.solaredge.com/). 
- You also need the site ID, which you can get from the URL once you log in (for example, `1234` from `https://monitoring.solaredge.com/solaredge-web/p/site/1234/`).

{% include integrations/config_flow.md %}

## Data updates

The integration fetches energy production for the past 7 days every 12 hours and inserts the data into statistics.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The API provides data at a 15-minute interval, but Home Assistant long-term statistics are limited to a 1-hour interval.

```
Would this be something that could be mentioned in the data updates section?

Author: To me it feels more appropriate in the limitations section.

      - condition: template
        value_template: |-
          {{ states('sensor.solaredge_low_production_modules_east') != '' or
             states('sensor.solaredge_low_production_modules_west') != '' }}
    then:
      - action: persistent_notification.create
        data:
          message: >-
            East: {{ states('sensor.solaredge_low_production_modules_east') |
            default('N/A') }}

            West: {{ states('sensor.solaredge_low_production_modules_west') |
            default('N/A') }}
          title: Low production detected on solar modules
          notification_id: solaredge_modules_low_production_alert
mode: single
```
{% endraw %}

## Removing the integration

{% include integrations/remove_device_service.md %}

## Known limitations

- The integration intentionally doesn't create any entities/sensors. All data is only available in statistics. This is because data is often delayed by a couple of hours.
- The statistics are intentionally updated infrequently. If you want more frequent updates, you can call the [`homeassistant.reload_config_entry`](/integrations/homeassistant/#action-homeassistantreload_config_entry) action from an automation.

> - The API provides data at a 15-minute interval, but Home Assistant long-term statistics are limited to a 1-hour interval.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The API provides data at a 15-minute interval, but Home Assistant {% term "long-term statistics" %} are limited to a 1-hour interval.

```
We have a glossary entry for this now 😄

      - condition: template
        value_template: |-
          {{ states('sensor.solaredge_low_production_modules_east') != '' or
             states('sensor.solaredge_low_production_modules_west') != '' }}
    then:
      - action: persistent_notification.create
        data:
          message: >-
            East: {{ states('sensor.solaredge_low_production_modules_east') |
            default('N/A') }}

            West: {{ states('sensor.solaredge_low_production_modules_west') |
            default('N/A') }}
          title: Low production detected on solar modules
          notification_id: solaredge_modules_low_production_alert
mode: single
```
{% endraw %}

## Removing the integration

{% include integrations/remove_device_service.md %}

## Known limitations

- The integration intentionally doesn't create any entities/sensors. All data is only available in statistics. This is because data is often delayed by a couple of hours.
- The statistics are intentionally updated infrequently. If you want more frequent updates, you can call the [`homeassistant.reload_config_entry`](/integrations/homeassistant/#action-homeassistantreload_config_entry) action from an automation.

> - The API provides data at a 15-minute interval, but Home Assistant {% term "long-term statistics" %} are limited to a 1-hour interval.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The API provides data at a 15-minute interval, but Home Assistant long-term statistics are limited to a 1-hour interval.

```

---
title: SolarEdge Modules
description: Instructions on how to integrate SolarEdge Modules within Home Assistant.
ha_category:
  - Energy
ha_release: '2025.7'
ha_iot_class: Cloud Polling
ha_config_flow: true
ha_domain: solaredge_modules
ha_dhcp: true
ha_codeowners:
  - '@tronikos'
ha_integration_type: service

> ---

Author: N/A. DHCP discovery is used similar to the existing SolarEdge integration which also has this.
